[MUSIC]
>> Jon Kuperman: So I hope that it was
easy to find that there was a problem, but
I'm assume,
as is usually the case that it was much
harder to figure out what
the problem was or how to fix it.
I think that's usually the way
it goes with memory leaks.
But so I would start off,
I think I put some hints.
I'd start off with a Timeline recording.
I just always start with a Timeline.
I don't know, I guess it's probably
I'm most comfortable panel but
it's also the easiest view in my opinion
to see for having a problem or not.
So I expanded all the way out, yeah.
So this time, sorry,
instead of doing the on page load,
we wanna actually make a recording
of the page being loaded.
Because we're not looking for
memory leaks with the page loading
which is almost never the case.
So if you're looking for memory leaks,
you wanna do one of these, start and stop,
after the page is loaded.
And here's kind of one of the jigsaws
like I was talking about so
we've got kinda two
different jigsaws going on.
So we've got this nodes one is a very
classic jigsaw if I may say so
myself, just more and more and
more being allocated.
And it never being garbage collected.
And then this JavaScript heap.
This is another pretty common pattern
which is that it's generating a ton of
code somewhere, a lot of memory.
And then garbage collection kicks in and
it's dropping.
Except we can see that each time
it doesn't quite drop all the way.
So it is getting higher.
So they're both jigsawing.
So we've got two problems.
One is some sort of elements being created
somewhere, I recognized these nodes.
And then alternatively we've got some
kind of loop or iteration something's
going on that is being garbage
collected but not all the way.
So knowing that there is a memory leak,
the next thing that I would do
is go into the Profiles panel.
And I probably just
kinda refresh the page.
And get a Heap Snapshot just like
where are we at from a fresh page.
And you can play around here a little bit,
seeing what the biggest thing is,
there's kinda give away already in here.
So the biggest thing by
far are these strings,
full of the letter x and some other stuff.
And the second biggest
thing are these arrays.
So again, I guess I like to take
the approach before I dive too deeper just
hitting all the panels.
And trying to get in my head,
getting in the head space of
what the problems likely are.
Before I have to dig into the code to be,
but
you know it's all those videos
that I have on the page.
So now here I'm, okay so we've got
JavaScript and we've got some elements.
Now we've got strings,
we've got arrays, I'm trying to keep
in mind everything that's going on.
So then yeah I guess hit
this Do some work button,
give that a second then
I go back to Profiles.
And take another Heap Snapshot.
So at this point, I've got two, I can see
there dramatically different in size.
So this one 61 megabytes,
this one's only 11.
And then I can switch from the Summary
view to the Comparison view and
compare it with Snapshot 1.
And again we have this huge
Size Delta of these strings which is
the same kinda xxx-string.
So from there, there's a couple of
different ways that you could go at it.
>> Jon Kuperman: It gets
a little bit tricky as again,
it's not as simple as when you're
doing those JavaScript profiling,
that's as accurate as you can be.
Cuz it'll be, this line of this file
caused this thing to happen, right.
Whereas, with the memory allocation
a lot of times it's like,
it can tell you what it's experiencing.
That you've been requesting a ton of
strings or something like that but it's
not quite as accurate as like, bam here's
where all the strings are coming from.
Because those variables, those data
structures come from multiple places,
right.
Lots of things can generate strings or
arrays or things like that.
So if we wanted to,
we could have used some of these tools as
well just to see that it's kinda growing.
It all kinda gets you
the same information, right,
like memories growing, stuff like that.
So yeah, from here we can kind of,
I mean we could do it a couple of
different ways of going through.
I thought somebody had asked what distance
was, it was a really good question.
I don't know how useful distances but
the distance is the distance from
the global object basically.
So it's in this case since around web,
Windows the global object so
it's like your how many steps it takes to
get to this element from Window, yeah.
So yeah basically about
all these strings and
I saw a lot of people I know some people
were like running the button over and
over again and
seeing that it was crashing or whatever.
So one approach that might be interesting
to take is you could go back to this
button kinda keeping it a little bit more
old school like we're working on before.
And looking at Event Listeners or
something like that.
Why don't I, uh-oh.
>> Jon Kuperman: I'm not seeing it,
hold on a second.
>> Jon Kuperman: No, all right,
maybe we can't do that.
There should be an Event Listener
in there somewhere.
I'm wondering if it's just that
it's going through jQuery.
And it's not registering as
an actual Event Listener.
I have to look into that,
that might be what it is.
Although jQuery should be
adding the Event Listener.
Anyway, sorry about that.
So yeah basically,
that's not even going through jQuery.
Basically what's going on here it's just
some memory leak that I thought of writing
really quickly.
But it's got two different problems to it.
The main thing is that
we've got this setTimeout
which calls grow and then grow which calls
setTimeout so it's a circular reference.
It's a very, very vague form but another
common form of memory leaks in JavaScript
if you have foo has some mention
the bar and bar has any mention of foo.
Neither can ever be garbage collected
because they'll both forever have
a reference to each other.
This one's even more severe because
it's actually calling it over and
over and over again.
So you get this infinite,
in an infinite loop of calling it.
And then I just have this,
I don't know, some huge leap,
I think arrays money wrote this code.
And I found it on some
memory leak website but
basically it just goes from
a hundred down to zero.
And it creates a div and it adds a bunch
of date time to string kinda things.
And then it just appends those Child.
So there's two different things
going on that's where we saw,
with the grow, that array is
able to be garbage collected.
Which is why you are seeing the actual
JavaScript blue kinda able to go
up and down.
Stuff that's being appended in the nodes
category that was the one that we saw it
was, sorry, a very classic jigsaw, none
of that ever getting garbage collected.
So yeah basically you can,
[LAUGH] anyway, looks like I don't have
a Event Listener which is why I
didn't see an Event Listener.
Unless I think I must
have removed that but so
that's the basic kind of concept of there.
Again, these things are gonna be really
easy to spot and really hard to fix.
Just because there's not
a one-to-one mapping on,
this memory comes from
this line of JavaScript.
It doesn't have that capability,
it's more,
you're allocating a ton of strings or
a bunch of objects or arrays.
And you kinda use the tools
between Timeline and
Profile to get a better
idea of what's going on.
But yeah, I mean ultimately it's gonna
come down until you either taking
a profile approach, or
you looking through your code.
And trying to figure out what's
causing those kind of things.
Is that pretty clear at least being
able to identify that there are problems
was clear for everybody, cool.